---
layout: content
title: "Halfway reflection: Being Yourself is a Numbers Game"
date: 2017-07-08
description: approaching women with honesty, direct walking up and showing vulnerability
---

Actual Date - July 6, 2017:

As a shy, awkward, introverted guy, the goal of this project for me is to learn from the process and not focus on success. This becomes very hard due to the temptations, the feeling that I get when I look at all of these fine girls showing off their bodies wearing summer clothes in NYC but not getting any “action”. Instead of focusing on myself, I sometimes vent my frustration by watching porn, and occasionally even feel like going on the online dating apps such as Tinder, Bumble, or even East Meets East. But that is not the way of this project so I persist. It's a journey of stumbling, falling down, but picking myself back up again.

The problem coming from this is how I get distracted and fixate on taking shortcuts to get to the end: by playing games. I do not like games. I can go on and on about this something I will discuss at the end of my project. Right now I’m halfway through and I’ve learned so much, with so much more to learn. Points of emphasis come from stepping far outside my comfort zone, learning about the types of people I encounter, and deciding how I should conduct myself.

<strong>The Comfort Zone Only Expands Once You Step Outside</strong>

One of my goals is to be fearless and that is still a work in progress. I still stumble so much - recently I was too hesitant to make an indirect fun comment to a girl at the supermarket and another time I was too awkward to ask if the wifi was also not working for the girl sitting at a table next to me. However, I do look back proudly at some feats. For my 47th approach, I walked straight up to a girl sitting on the grass reading a magazine, knelt down next to her, and said my direct line. Despite getting a confused reaction, I held firm and simply picked myself up to walk away after she acted more cautious rather than open. Carrying myself with the mindset of missing all of the shots I don’t take, I approached a girl in Koreatown who was quite hot and told her what I honestly felt, not caring about rejection (which did happen) for my 44th approach. Having initiated 56 conversations with strangers, I’ve been brushed off many times but my 41st approach and I had such a positive interaction that it warranted my writing a post about it. In the end, my baseline confidence in how I conduct myself will improve the more I establish myself with just living an organized life and my confidence with women romantically has definitely shot up.

<strong>The "Good" vs. The "Bad"</strong>

While I have improved in terms of lowering my fear of rejection and increasing my willingness to take risks with women, there are still many factors in getting success with women, one of them being actual game. Because I’ve only approached Asian women, I have noticed quite a distinction in “good” girls vs. “fun” girls - the first category are girls with traditional values that would NOT want to have casual sex versus the latter, whom are open to having a good time. From my data, I can conclude that my direct opener is quite well-received with the “good” girls, all but those that have suspicions that I do this to multiple women. Conversely, when I act in a more flirtatious manner, the “fun” girls respond back whereas the “good” girls end up taking me for a player. 

All of this deliberation came about from my 53rd approach. I initiated the conversation by saying my direct line, and she smiled as if to give me a chance to impress her. Following my standard way of continuing the conversation, I started to ramble, but she walked away after the light turned green. From her actions, I thought that I wasn’t engaging enough - while my approach had enough “shock value” to grab her attention based on its boldness, the tame follow-up lead to a de-escalation of the conversation, and this is where game would come into play. Had I said something like “you are the most beautiful girl in all of SoHo, I’m so lucky to have run into you today”, she might have responded back playfully and we could have had something going. Honestly, in doing the direct approach I got the verdict that my looks were not enough to maintain her focus. I’m sure that this attractive girl has plenty of men on demand in her social circles as well as the internet. I didn’t distinguish myself enough, and to do that I would have had to act differently than I usually do, which is hard.

I feel much more at home being myself with the “good” girls. It’s as if I’m talking to a female friend, there’s no need to play games in terms of delaying my texting. However, the risk here comes with finding a connection. The relationship will not get sexual or even develop farther than the superficial level unless there is a point of connection, and this is where it becomes a numbers game. The benefit here is a genuine interaction. In doing a direct approach, I already lay out my intention to the girl and it’s up to her to take it or leave it, to see what type of person I am given that she’s already (for the most part) approved of my looks by giving me a chance through the act of not walking away.

<strong>Sticking To Principles</strong>

I’m going to continue the search for meaningful interactions with women I find attractive. At this point, I am not going to put on an act - no purposely delayed responses to text messages, studying of pickup material on “how to escalate”, or any sort of deception. I’m just not at the point to do so yet, because right now is NOT the time for me to focus on women. I have things I want to build and if someone comes along with me for the ride, then so be it, but I am still young and really do strive to play the long game. This is to help me take the shots at the people I will inevitably meet to see if it leads to something.
