---
layout: content
title: "First 17: Mindset, Timing, and Execution"
date: 2017-06-04
description: learnings from talking to women on the street, combating approach anxiety, developing confidence
---

So far I’ve done a total of 17 approaches out of my 100 (without counting 10 ETC ones) and I’m feeling quite well adjusted to continue my journey. I’ve had my share of stumbles, awkward moments, and rejections, but I’ve also had some great conversations. Analyzing my notes from my forays, the three most important takeaways this time are the importance of mindset, timing, and execution.
 
When I go up to a girl to speak to her, I go without expecting anything except the opportunity to engage her in conversation. I’m simply putting myself out there. Whether it’s through saying directly that I thought she was cute so I came to say hi, or striking up a conversation with a playful comment, the intent is to start an interaction - it’s up to her to take it from there. 
 
Some approaches that went well with direct execution were my first and second ones, both at Bryant Park. I walked up to them and said what I honestly thought, and they both responded appreciatively and curiously. I followed up by rambling a bit about the nearby environment to keep the conversation flowing, while dropping some hints about myself. The first girl was into the conversation and asked about me while the second did not; nevertheless, I still had good interactions and learned a bit about them. On the indirect side, I take a more low-key, often inquisitive approach to start a conversation. My fourth approach involved talking to a girl with a graduation gown who was with her friend and that interested me because it’s only once a year that they walk around the city dressed in that garb. My eleventh approach had a (birthday) bag that looked like it was for a special occasion and I commented on that. Again, these approaches do not involve any fancy pickup lines. I only say what I say to pique my genuine interest.
 
Of course, my take-it-or-leave-it approach also evokes responses of them not having it. Some of the reasons can be justified, but some can be pretty random as well. My third approach to the girl carrying a college bookstore bag resulted in a conversation but it was very short - was she in a rush? Or did she just not want to talk to strangers (she was an international student from China)? Things like this are bound to happen. So are girls who have boyfriends, claim they have “boyfriends”, are in a rush, have been approached too many times on the street, are not in the mood to talk, or are just not attracted to me. I don’t overthink about this, I think about how to improve for next time.
 
As I talk to more girls and engage with more types of people, my comfort level gradually increases. Now more used to walking up to somebody to talk to them, I’m more aware of seizing the window of opportunity. I’m by far no expert at this - it’s not like in the movies when a man makes eye contact with a woman and then immediately goes to talk to her while maintaining a sexual tension with his gaze. It’s more of being less fazed by rejection, to take the shot while I have it. At Washington Square Park, I noticed this cute girl taking pictures of a guy playing with bubbles and coincidently she stood beside me to get a better shot. Zoning out the many people on the benches and in the park who could see what I was doing, I turned to comment on her great positioning to take the photo. While walking past the Uniqlo in SoHo, I noticed a pair of girls walk out of the store and I immediately turned around to talk to them, telling the girl I was into “I saw you walk out of Uniqlo”. 
 
I did not get anything out of these quick feats of timing. However, I am getting better at it. I’ve read online that women can sense nervous energy when a guy talks to them, and I believe that’s true. There have been times when I’ve deliberated too much on whether to talk to the girl or not, and when I do, it goes awkwardly because she picked up on how long I waited to talk to her. When I see a cute girl pass by and I turn around to catch up to her, the longer I see her in my sights and not initiate, the more nervous I get. Overthinking ruins spontaneity, creating room for fear of failure through nervousness and hesitation.
 
Since starting this journey, I’ve been able to expand my comfort zone by quite a bit. From this first phase, I can see room to grow because I often get nervous. At this point, I’ve been more of a “sniper” in picking who to talk to in an effort to minimize my chances of rejection. When I get too caught up in something about the girl or myself, I tend to mess up. My eighth approach was in front of the Aritzia in SoHo. I spotted two girls crossing over to my side of the street. Instead of facing them, I faced away and only walked back to them after they passed me. I’ve been more comfortable talking to girls from mainland China, so I hesitated in my execution talking to this Chinese-american girl. At Koreatown, I noticed a cute girl walk by me but I did not say my direct line in a confident manner, leading her to brush me off. While standing in front of Dean & Deluca in SoHo, I wanted to talk to this girl who walked in but I didn’t follow her inside. Instead, I only did so after my friend convinced me to and followed her around a bit until she was isolated. While I did say what I wanted to, I didn’t make good eye contact and was shy because of how attractive I thought she was, leading her to say thanks and have a good night. Nervous, I could not take the lead in steering the conversation. 
 
This is only the beginning part of this series and I’ve already learned so much. I’m noticing where I am plateauing in how I interact with different types of girls, and I see the key to improvement: confidence. Confidence is a holistic manner in how I conduct myself and I’m not going to magically develop it without taking action. In addition to stepping out of my comfort zone in doing approaches, I’m working to improve my lifestyle, putting more pride into my day job, and engaging with more like-minded, entrepreneurial individuals. While game is in the end a numbers game, I’m working my way to increase the odds of success.
 
 
 
